Internal Solution for Codeforces 920E (#2066)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/cf-920E.mdx

We can store whether non-existant edges using an array of hashsets, instead of a adjacency list. This way we can find if there is no edge between two nodes in
$\mathcal{O}(1)$ time. Using an adjacency matrix would take too much
memory.

### Optimization 2

Rather than using a standard boolean array to check if a node has not yet been visited, we
can use a set of unvisited nodes. This way we only loop through the nodes that
have not been visited yet and can find the next unvisited node in $\mathcal{O}(\log N)$. We need to use ```upper_bound``` to find
the next unvisited node after a DFS - an iterator may be invalidated due to the
node it is pointing to being destroyed when we remove it from the unvisited set.

### Proof

We know that a node can either be skipped or visited. We also know that once a
node is visited it cannot be revisited. Therefore we will always visit $N$ nodes once. We also know that the sum of skips can be at most $2M$ (each
non-edge skips two nodes). Therefore the overall complexity will be
$O(N\log N+M)$.

## Implementation
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log N+M)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

> const int MAX_N = 200000;

Reviewer: ```suggestion

const int MAX_N = 200000;
```

$n_1$ and $n_2$ must intersect, otherwise the graph must be greater than $N$.  

Given this, we can just put all nodes with $\texttt{degree} +1 > \dfrac{N}2$
into the same group in $O(N)$ time.

Now we can just process all nodes with $\texttt{degree}+1\le\dfrac{N}2$, with DFS.

### Proof

We can handle all nodes with $\texttt{degree}+1>\dfrac{N}2$ in $O(N)$ time. 

Given that $N'$ nodes have at most $\dfrac{N}2 -1 ≈ \dfrac{N}2$ edges, they also must have at least $\dfrac{N}2$ non-edges. Therefore, there must be at least $\dfrac{N'\cdot\dfrac{N}2}2 = \dfrac{N\cdot N'}4$ non-edges (each edge accounts for two nodes).

The input states that the number of edges is less than $2 \cdot 10^5$, therefore $\dfrac{N \cdot N'}4\le2\cdot10^5$, therefore $N \cdot N' \le8\cdot10^5$. 

Doing a simple DFS and checking whether two nodes intersect would be $\mathcal{O}(NN'+ \log M)$, which would fit under the time limit. The $\log M$ comes from processing input. Therefore, this runs under the time limit.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(NN'+ \log M)$

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
using vi = vector<int>;
#define pb push_back

> const int MAX_N = 200000;

Reviewer: ```suggestion

const int MAX_N = 200000;
```

unordered_set<int> adj[MAX_N];
// group[i] = the group of the ith node
// group[i] = 0 if the ith node hasn't been assigned a group yet
int group[MAX_N];
// the nodes in the current component
vi currentcomponent;
// curgroup = the group of the current component
// curgroup is always either cur or 1
int curgroup;
bool vis[MAX_N];
int n, m;
// sz[i] = size of group i
int sz[MAX_N];

void dfs (int x) {
	// if x can be reached, it is part of the current component
	currentcomponent.pb(x);
	vis[x] = true;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		// if there is no, non-edge between x and i, i can be visited
		if (x != i && adj[x].find(i) == adj[x].end()) {
			// if we can visit a node from group one every node in
			// the current component can visit group 1 and we dont
			// have to create a new component
			if (group[i] == 1) {
				curgroup = 1;
				continue;
			} else {
				if (!vis[i]) {
					dfs(i);
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
int main() {
	cin >> n >> m;
	for (int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
		int a, b;
		cin >> a >> b;
		a--;
		b--;
		adj[a].insert(b);
		adj[b].insert(a);
	}

> 	int cur = 1; // current number of groups+1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	int cur = 1; // current number of groups + 1
```

---
id: cf-920E
source: CF
title: Connected Components?
author: Daniel Qiu
---

> 

Reviewer 3: You're switching between inclusive first person (we) and second person (you) a lot through this solution. Can you stick to one so that it's more consistent? (I think we is prob better but up to u)

[Official Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/57516)

## Solution 1 - Faster DFS

Doing a standard DFS would be too slow. To speed it up, we have to do two
optimizations.

### Optimization 1

You can store whether there is no edge between two nodes using an array of hashsets, instead of a adjacency list. If the input tells you that nodes $a$ and $b$ do not have an edge between them, you would add $a$ to $\texttt{adj}[b]$, and $b$ to $\texttt{adj}[a]$ 
This way you can find if there is no edge between two nodes in
$\mathcal{O}(1)$ time. Using an adjacency matrix would take too much

> memory.

Reviewer 4: Something along the lines of "To save memory, we only store non-existent edges in `adj`. To perform a fast lookup of non-existent edges, we can use a HashSet to query this in O(1) time." suffices.

The rest is somewhat redundant.

### Optimization 2

Rather than using a standard boolean array to check if a node has not yet been visited, you
can use a set of unvisited nodes. This way you only loop through the nodes that
have not been visited yet and can find the next unvisited node in $\mathcal{O}(\log N)$. You need to use ```upper_bound``` to find
the next unvisited node after a DFS - an iterator may be invalidated due to the
node it is pointing to being destroyed when you remove it from the unvisited set.

### Proof

We know that a node can either be skipped or visited. We also know that once a
node is visited it cannot be revisited. Therefore you will always visit $N$ nodes once. We also know that the sum of skips can be at most $2M$ (each
non-edge skips two nodes). Therefore the overall complexity will be
$O(N\log N+M)$.

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

## Implementation
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log N+M)$

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
const int MAX_N = 200000;
unordered_set<int> adj[MAX_N];
// the set of nodes that have not been visited
set<int> unvis;
// sz[i] = size of the ith connected component

> int sz[200000];

Reviewer: put MAX_N here too

// current amount of groups
int cur = 0;
void dfs(int x) {
	sz[cur]++;
	auto it = unvis.begin();

> 	while(it != unvis.end()) {

Reviewer: uh add another space after the `while`, `if`, etc...
```cpp
while (it != unvis.end()) {
}
```

	while (it != unvis.end()) {
		// if there is no edge between x and *it, skip
		if (adj[x].count(*it)) {
			it++;
		} else {
			// there is a edge between last and x
			int last = *it;
			// note it = unvis.erase(it) doenst work here because it could be erased later
			unvis.erase(it);
			dfs(last);
			// find the node after last
			it = unvis.upper_bound(last);
		}
	}
}
int main() {
	int n, m;
	cin >> n >> m;
	for (int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
		int a, b;
		cin >> a >> b;
		a--;
		b--;
		adj[a].insert(b);
		adj[b].insert(a);
	}
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		unvis.insert(i);
	}
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		auto it = unvis.find(i);
		if (it != unvis.end()) {
			unvis.erase(it);
			dfs(i);
			cur++;
		}
	}
	cout << cur << endl;
	sort(sz, sz + cur);
	for (int i = 0; i < cur; i++) {
		cout << sz[i] << ' ';
	}
	cout << endl;
}
```
</CPPSection>
</LanguageSection>

## Solution 2 - Selective DFS

> Let $N =$ the number of nodes in the graph and $n =$ an abitrary node and $\texttt{degree}(n)=$ the number of neighbooring nodes (number of different nodes $n$ is directly connected to). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let $N =$ the number of nodes in the graph, $n =$ an abitrary node, and $\texttt{degree}(n)=$ the number of neighbooring nodes (nodes that are directly connected to $n$). 
```

The input states that the number of edges is less than $2 \cdot 10^5$, therefore $\dfrac{N \cdot N'}4\le2\cdot10^5$, therefore $N \cdot N' \le8\cdot10^5$. 

Doing a simple DFS and checking whether two nodes intersect would be $\mathcal{O}(NN'+ \log M)$, which would fit under the time limit. The $\log M$ comes from processing input. Therefore, this runs under the time limit.

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

## Implementation
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(NN'+ \log M)$
```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
using vi = vector<int>;
#define pb push_back
const int MAX_N = 200000;
unordered_set<int> adj[MAX_N];
// group[i] = the group of the ith node
// group[i] = 0 if the ith node hasn't been assigned a group yet
int group[200005];
// the nodes in the current component
vi currentcomponent;
// curgroup = the group of the current component
// curgroup is always either cur or 1
int curgroup;
bool vis[200005];
int n, m;
// sz[i] = size of group i

> int sz[200005];

Reviewer: 200k appears all around here as well, use MAX_N for them as well

---
id: cf-920E
source: CF
title: Connected Components?
author: Daniel Qiu
---

[Official Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/57516)

> ## Explanation

Reviewer 3: Don't think you need this since you already have solution headers
```suggestion
```

> Doing a standard DFS would be too slow. To speed it up, we have to do two

Reviewer 5: Perhaps explain why?

optimizations.

### Optimization 1

> We can store whether non-existant edges using an array of hashsets, instead of a adjacency list. This way we can find if there is no edge between two nodes in

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We can store whether edges are non-existent using an array of hashsets instead of an adjacency list. This way we can find if there is no edge between two nodes in
```

> You can store whether there is no edge between two nodes using an array of hashsets, instead of a adjacency list. If the input tells you that nodes $a$ and $b$ do node have an edge between them, you would insert node $a$ at $\texttt{array}[b]$, and node $b$ and $\texttt{array}[a]$ 

Reviewer 3: Since your array name for the array of hashets is `adj` in the implementation, also make the name `adj` here for consistency

```suggestion
You can store whether there is no edge between two nodes using an array of hashsets, instead of a adjacency list. If the input tells you that nodes $a$ and $b$ do not have an edge between them, you would add $a$ to $\texttt{adj}[b]$, and $b$ to $\texttt{adj}[a]$ 
```

This way you can find if there is no edge between two nodes in
$\mathcal{O}(1)$ time. Using an adjacency matrix would take too much
memory.

### Optimization 2

> Rather than using a standard boolean array to check if a node is not visited, you

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Rather than using a standard boolean array to check if a node has not yet been visited, you
```

can use a set of unvisited nodes. This way you only loop through the nodes that

> have not been visited yet and you can find the next unvisited node in $\mathcal{O}(\log N)$. You need to use ```upper_bound``` to find

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
have not been visited yet and can find the next unvisited node in $\mathcal{O}(\log N)$. You need to use ```upper_bound``` to find
```

### Proof

We know that a node can either be skipped or visited. We also know that once a
node is visited it cannot be revisited. Therefore we will always visit $N$ nodes once. We also know that the sum of skips can be at most $2M$ (each
non-edge skips two nodes). Therefore the overall complexity will be
$O(N\log N+M)$.

## Implementation
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log N+M)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

> node is visited it cannot be revisited. Therefore you will always visit $N$ nodes once. We also know that the sum of skips can be at most $2M$ (each

Reviewer 3: By skipped do you mean that it will never be visited, or that it will be visited in the future?

Reviewer 3: If it means that it will never be visited, change it to "Therefore, you will visit at most $N$ nodes"

Author: It will be visited in the future.

Reviewer 3: I think skipped might be a bit misleading. Just say something like we will visit all nodes once, and since we keep track of which nodes have been visited, we won't visit any node more than once.

Author: I think it is important to prove that the number of times you loop is not greater than 2m+n, otherwise, the solution could TLE

> 
> <LanguageSection>
> <CPPSection>
> 
> ## Implementation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

## Implementation

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log N+M)$

Reviewer 3: If the time complexity would be the same in Java/Python, move it out of the language section as well

#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

const int MAX_N = 200000;
unordered_set<int> adj[MAX_N];

> // the set of nodes that have not been visited
> set<int> unvis;
> // sz[i] = size of the ith connected component
> int sz[MAX_N];
> // current amount of groups
> int cur = 0;

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
set<int> unvis; // the set of nodes that have not been visited
int sz[MAX_N]; // sz[i] = size of the ith connected component
int cur = 0; // current amount of groups
```

> unordered_set<int> adj[200000];

Reviewer: 200000 is bad, perhaps put it in a constant called MAX_N

> //the set of nodes that have not been visited

Reviewer: put a space after a comment
like
```
// the set of nodes that have not been visited
```

int cur = 0;

> void dfs(int x){

Reviewer: not necessary, but i would love it if you could do your braces like this
```cpp
void dfs(int x) {
}

if (adj[x].count(*it)) {
} else {
}
```

	sz[cur]++;
	auto it = unvis.begin();
	while(it != unvis.end()){
		//if there is no edge between x and *it, skip
		if(adj[x].count(*it)){
			it++;
		}else{
			//there is a edge between last and x
			int last = *it;
			//note it = unvis.erase(it) doenst work here because it could be erased later
			unvis.erase(it);
			dfs(last);
			//find the node after last
			it = unvis.upper_bound(last);
		}
	}
}
int main(){
	int n, m;
	cin >> n >> m;

> 	for(int i = 0; i < m; i++){

Reviewer: yeah same stuff w/ the braces and stuff

		int a, b;
		cin >> a >> b;
		a--;
		b--;
		adj[a].insert(b);
		adj[b].insert(a);
	}
	for(int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		unvis.insert(i);
	}
	for(int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		auto it = unvis.find(i);
		if(it != unvis.end()) {
			unvis.erase(it);
			dfs(i);
			cur++;
		}
	}
	cout << cur << endl;
	sort(sz, sz + cur);
	for(int i = 0; i < cur; i++) {
		cout << sz[i] << ' ';
	}
	cout << endl;
}
```
</CPPSection>
</LanguageSection>

## Solution 2 - Selective DFS

> Let $N =$ the number of nodes in the graph and $n =$ an abitrary node 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let $N =$ the number of nodes in the graph and $n =$ an abitrary node and
```

> $\texttt{degree}(n)=$ the number of neighbooring nodes (number of different nodes $n$ is directly connected to). 

Reviewer 3: Is there any reason why this is on a separate line?

Author: originally each variable would be defined on a different line, but ill change it now

We know that the size of the component containing node $n$ must be at least
$\texttt{degree}(n)+1$ ($\texttt{degree}(n)$ doesn't include $n$).

If $\texttt{degree}(n_1)+1>\dfrac{N}2$ and $\texttt{degree}(n_2)+1>\dfrac{N}2$, 

> $n_1$ and $n_2$ must intersect, otherwise the graph must be greater than $N$.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$n_1$ and $n_2$ must intersect, otherwise the graph must have more than $N$ nodes.  
```

Given this, we can just put all nodes with $\texttt{degree} +1 > \dfrac{N}2$
into the same group in $O(N)$ time.

Now we can just process all nodes with $\texttt{degree}+1\le\dfrac{N}2$, with DFS.

### Proof

We can handle all nodes with $\texttt{degree}+1>\dfrac{N}2$ in $O(N)$ time. 

> Given that $N'$ nodes have at most $\dfrac{N}2 -1 ≈ \dfrac{N}2$ edges, they also must have at least $\dfrac{N}2$ non-edges. Therefore, there must be at least $\dfrac{N'\cdot\dfrac{N}2}2 = \dfrac{N\cdot N'}4$ non-edges (each edge accounts for two nodes).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Let there be $N'$ nodes that have at most $\dfrac{N}2 -1 ≈ \dfrac{N}2$ edges. Then, they also must have at least $\dfrac{N}2$ non-edges. Therefore, there must be at least $\dfrac{N'\cdot\dfrac{N}2}2 = \dfrac{N\cdot N'}4$ non-edges (each edge accounts for two nodes).
```

We can handle all nodes with $\texttt{degree}+1>\dfrac{N}2$ in $O(N)$ time. 

Given that $N'$ nodes have at most $\dfrac{N}2 -1 ≈ \dfrac{N}2$ edges, they also must have at least $\dfrac{N}2$ non-edges. Therefore, there must be at least $\dfrac{N'\cdot\dfrac{N}2}2 = \dfrac{N\cdot N'}4$ non-edges (each edge accounts for two nodes).

The input states that the number of edges is less than $2 \cdot 10^5$, therefore $\dfrac{N \cdot N'}4\le2\cdot10^5$, therefore $N \cdot N' \le8\cdot10^5$. 

Doing a simple DFS and checking whether two nodes intersect would be $\mathcal{O}(NN'+ \log M)$, which would fit under the time limit. The $\log M$ comes from processing input. Therefore, this runs under the time limit.

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

## Implementation
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(NN'+ \log M)$
```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
using vi = vector<int>;
#define pb push_back

> unordered_set<int> adj[200005];

Reviewer: 1. you used 200k for the previous sol, why not 200k here as well?
2. also same thing, use a constant please

> //group[i] = the group of the ith node

Reviewer: comments

int group[MAX_N];

> // the nodes in the current component
> vi currentcomponent;

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
vi currentcomponent; // the nodes in the current component
```

vi currentcomponent;
// curgroup = the group of the current component
// curgroup is always either cur or 1
int curgroup;
bool vis[MAX_N];
int n, m;
// sz[i] = size of group i
int sz[MAX_N];

void dfs (int x) {
	// if x can be reached, it is part of the current component
	currentcomponent.pb(x);
	vis[x] = true;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		// if there is no, non-edge between x and i, i can be visited
		if (x != i && adj[x].find(i) == adj[x].end()) {
			// if we can visit a node from group one every node in
			// the current component can visit group 1 and we dont
			// have to create a new component
			if (group[i] == 1) {
				curgroup = 1;
				continue;
			} else {
				if (!vis[i]) {
					dfs(i);
				}
			}
		}
	}

> }

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
}

```

int main() {
	cin >> n >> m;
	for (int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
		int a, b;
		cin >> a >> b;
		a--;
		b--;
		adj[a].insert(b);
		adj[b].insert(a);
	}
	int cur = 1; // current number of groups + 1
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {

> 		// if any two nodes have degree+1 >n/2, they are part of the same component

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
		// if any two nodes have degree+1 > n/2, they are part of the same component
```

		if (n - adj[i].size() > n / 2) {

> 			// assign ith node to component 1
> 			group[i] = 1;
> 			// increase the size of component 1
> 			sz[1]++;
> 			// there is at least one group
> 			cur = 2;

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
			group[i] = 1; // assign ith node to component 1
			sz[1]++; // increase the size of component 1
			
			cur = 2; // there is at least one group
```

		}
	}

> 	for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){

Reviewer: same things here- brace style, comments, yeah yeah

		if (!group[i]) {
			// curgroup's default is cur
			curgroup = cur;
			dfs(i);
			for (int j : currentcomponent) {
				group[j] = curgroup;
				sz[curgroup]++;
			}
			currentcomponent.clear();

> 			// if a new group has been created, e.g. curgroup =cur, increase cur

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
			// if a new group has been created, e.g. curgroup = cur, increase cur
```

			if (curgroup == cur) {
				cur++;
			}
		}
	}
	cout << cur - 1 << endl;
	sort(sz, sz + cur);
	for (int i = 1; i < cur; i++) {
		cout << sz[i] << ' ';
	}
	cout << endl;

> }
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
}
```

---
id: cf-920E
source: CF
title: Connected Components?
author: Daniel Qiu
---

[Official Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/57516)

## Explanation
## Solution 1 - Faster DFS

Doing a standard DFS would be too slow. To speed it up, we have to do two
optimizations.

### Optimization 1

> You can store whether there is no edge between two nodes using an array of sets, instead of a adjacency list. If the input tells you that nodes $a$ and $b$ do node have an edge between them, you would insert node $a$ at $array[b]$, and node $b$ and $array[a]$ 

Reviewer 4: using \texttt{array}

This way you can find if there is no edge between two nodes in

> $\mathcal{O}(\log N)$ time. Using an adjacency matrix would take too much

Author: according to cplusplus.com, unordered_set::find worse case = linear in container size. https://www.cplusplus.com/reference/unordered_set/unordered_set/find/

> $\mathcal{O}(\log N)$ time. Using an adjacency matrix would take too much

Reviewer 3: Isn't that only when all elements collide? I may be wrong tho cause I don't use c++ often. @SansPapyrus683 can u verify?

> $\mathcal{O}(\log N)$ time. Using an adjacency matrix would take too much

Reviewer: yeah i mean like the probability of that happening is like less than the chance that dream DIDN'T cheat on his speedrun

memory.

### Optimization 2

Rather than using a standard boolean array to check if a node is not visited, you
can use a set of unvisited nodes. This way you only loop through the nodes that
have not been visited yet and you can find the next unvisited node in $\mathcal{O}(\log N)$. You need to use ```upper_bound``` to find

> the next unvisited node after a DFS - an  iterator may be invalidated due to the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the next unvisited node after a DFS - an iterator may be invalidated due to the
```

> node it is pointing to being destoryed when you remove it from the unvisited set.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
node it is pointing to being destroyed when you remove it from the unvisited set.
```

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

set<int> adj[200000];
//the set of nodes that have not been visited
set<int> unvis;
// sz[i] = size of the ith connected component
int sz[200000];
//current amount of groups
int cur = 0;
void dfs(int x){
	sz[cur]++;
	auto it = unvis.begin();
	while(it!=unvis.end()){
		//if there is no edge between x and *it, skip
		if(adj[x].count(*it)){
			it++;
		}else{
			//there is a edge between last and x
			int last = *it;
			//note it = unvis.erase(it) doenst work here because it could be erased later
			unvis.erase(it);
			dfs(last);
			//find the node after last
			it = unvis.upper_bound(last);
		}
	}
}
int main(){
	int n, m;
	cin>>n>>m;
	for(int i = 0; i<m; i++){
		int a, b;
		cin>>a>>b;
		a--;
		b--;
		adj[a].insert(b);
		adj[b].insert(a);
	}
	for(int i = 0; i<n; i++){
		unvis.insert(i);
	}
	for(int i = 0; i<n; i++){
		auto it = unvis.find(i);
		if(it!=unvis.end()){
			unvis.erase(it);
			dfs(i);
			cur++;
		}
	}
	cout<<cur<<endl;
	sort(sz, sz+cur);
	for(int i = 0; i<cur; i++){
		cout<<sz[i]<<' ';
	}
	cout<<endl;
}
```
</CPPSection>
</LanguageSection>

## Solution 2 - Selective DFS

> Let $N =$ number of nodes in the graph

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Let $N =$ the number of nodes in the graph
```

> $n =$ an abitrary node 

Reviewer 4: combine this with line 110 using the word "and"

$\texttt{degree}(n)=$ the number of neighbooring nodes (number of different nodes $n$ is directly connected to). 

> <br></br>

Reviewer 3: What's this

Author: I wanted to add a bigger gap between the terminology and the solution. <br> is break in html, it creates a line break in text.

Reviewer 3: The header generally provides enough spacing, so I don't think you need it

$n_1$ and $n_2$ must intersect, otherwise the graph must be greater than $N$.  

Given this, we can just put all nodes with $\texttt{degree} +1 > \dfrac{N}2$
into the same group in $O(N)$ time.

Now we can just process all nodes with $\texttt{degree}+1\le\dfrac{N}2$, with DFS.

### Proof

We can handle all nodes with $\texttt{degree}+1>\dfrac{N}2$ in $O(N)$ time. 

Given that $N'$ nodes have at most $\dfrac{N}2 -1 ≈ \dfrac{N}2$ edges, they also must have at least $\dfrac{N}2$ non-edges. Therefore, there must be at least $\dfrac{N'\cdot\dfrac{N}2}2 = \dfrac{N\cdot N'}4$ non-edges (each edge accounts for two nodes).

The input states that the number of edges is less than $2 \cdot 10^5$, therefore $\dfrac{N \cdot N'}4\le2\cdot10^5$, therefore $N \cdot N' \le8\cdot10^5$. 

Doing a simple DFS and checking whether two nodes intersect would be $\mathcal{O}(NN' \log N+ \log M)$, which would fit under the time limit. The $\log N$ comes from checking if two nodes are connected using an array of sets and the $\log M$ comes from processing input. Therefore, this runs under the time limit.

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

> ## Alternate Solution Implementation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Implementation
```

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(NN' \log N+ \log M)$
```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
using vi = vector<int>;
#define pb push_back

set<int> adj[200005];
//group[i] = the group of the ith node
//group[i] = 0 if the ith node hasn't been assigned a group yet
int group[200005];
//the nodes in the current component
vi currentcomponent;
//curgroup = the group of the current component
//curgroup is always either cur or 1
int curgroup;
bool vis[200005];
int n, m;
//sz[i] = size of group i
int sz[200005];

void dfs(int x){
	//if x can be reached, it is part of the current component
	currentcomponent.pb(x);
	vis[x] = true;

> 	for(int i = 0; i<n; i++){

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
```

		// if there is no, non-edge between x and i, i can be visited

> 		if(x!=i&&adj[x].find(i)==adj[x].end()){

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		if(x != i && adj[x].find(i) == adj[x].end()){
```

			//if you can visit a node from group one every node in
			//the current component can visit group 1 and you dont
			//have to create a new component

> 			if(group[i]==1){

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			if(group[i] == 1){
```

				curgroup = 1;
				continue;
			}else{
				if(!vis[i]){
					dfs(i);
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
int main(){

> 	cin>>n>>m;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	cin >> n >> m;
```

	for(int i = 0; i<m; i++){
		int a, b;

> 		cin>>a>>b;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		cin >> a >> b;
```

		a--;
		b--;
		adj[a].insert(b);
		adj[b].insert(a);
	}
	int cur = 1;//current number of groups+1

> 	for(int i = 0; i<n; i++){

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
```

		//if any two nodes have degree+1 >n/2, they are part of the same component

> 		if(n-adj[i].size()>n/2){

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		if(n - adj[i].size() > n / 2){
```

			//assign ith node to component 1
			group[i] = 1;
			//increase the size of component 1
			sz[1]++;
			//there is at least one group
			cur = 2;
		}
	}

> 	for(int i = 0; i<n; i++){

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
```

		if(!group[i]){
			//curgroup's default is cur
			curgroup = cur;
			dfs(i);
			for(int j : currentcomponent){
				group[j] = curgroup;
				sz[curgroup]++;
			}
			currentcomponent.clear();
			//if a new group has been created, e.g. curgroup =cur, increase cur

> 			if(curgroup==cur){

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			if(curgroup == cur){
```

				cur++;
			}
		}
	}

> 	cout<<cur-1<<endl;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	cout << cur - 1 << endl;
```

> 	sort(sz, sz+cur);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	sort(sz, sz + cur);
```

> 	for(int i = 1; i<cur; i++){

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	for(int i = 1; i < cur; i++){
```

> 		cout<<sz[i]<<' ';

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		cout << sz[i] << ' ';
```

	}

> 	cout<<endl;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	cout << endl;
```

const int MAX_N = 200000;
unordered_set<int> adj[MAX_N];
set<int> unvis; // the set of nodes that have not been visited
int sz[MAX_N]; // sz[i] = size of the ith connected component
int cur = 0; // current amount of groups
void dfs(int x) {
	sz[cur]++;
	auto it = unvis.begin();
	while (it != unvis.end()) {
		// if there is no edge between x and *it, skip
		if (adj[x].count(*it)) {
			it++;
		} else {
			// there is a edge between last and x
			int last = *it;
			// note it = unvis.erase(it) doenst work here because it could be erased later
			unvis.erase(it);
			dfs(last);
			// find the node after last
			it = unvis.upper_bound(last);
		}
	}
}
int main() {
	int n, m;
	cin >> n >> m;
	for (int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
		int a, b;
		cin >> a >> b;
		a--;
		b--;
		adj[a].insert(b);
		adj[b].insert(a);
	}
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		unvis.insert(i);
	}
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		auto it = unvis.find(i);
		if (it != unvis.end()) {
			unvis.erase(it);
			dfs(i);
			cur++;
		}
	}
	cout << cur << endl;
	sort(sz, sz + cur);
	for (int i = 0; i < cur; i++) {
		cout << sz[i] << ' ';
	}
	cout << endl;
}
```
</CPPSection>
</LanguageSection>

## Solution 2 - Selective DFS

> Let $N =$ the number of nodes in the graph, $n =$ an abitrary node, and $\texttt{degree}(n)=$ the number of neighbooring nodes (nodes that are directly connected to $n$). 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Let $N =$ the number of nodes in the graph, $n =$ an arbitrary node, and $\texttt{degree}(n)=$ the number of neighboring nodes (nodes that are directly connected to $n$). 
```

			// have to create a new component
			if (group[i] == 1) {
				curgroup = 1;
				continue;
			} else {
				if (!vis[i]) {
					dfs(i);
				}
			}
		}
	}
}

int main() {
	cin >> n >> m;
	for (int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
		int a, b;
		cin >> a >> b;
		a--;
		b--;
		adj[a].insert(b);
		adj[b].insert(a);
	}
	int cur = 1; // current number of groups + 1
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		// if any two nodes have degree+1 > n/2, they are part of the same component
		if (n - adj[i].size() > n / 2) {
			group[i] = 1; // assign ith node to component 1
			sz[1]++; // increase the size of component 1
			
			cur = 2; // there is at least one group
		}
	}
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		if (!group[i]) {
			// curgroup's default is cur
			curgroup = cur;
			dfs(i);
			for (int j : currentcomponent) {
				group[j] = curgroup;
				sz[curgroup]++;
			}
			currentcomponent.clear();
			// if a new group has been created, e.g. curgroup = cur, increase cur
			if (curgroup == cur) {
				cur++;
			}
		}
	}
	cout << cur - 1 << endl;
	sort(sz, sz + cur);
	for (int i = 1; i < cur; i++) {
		cout << sz[i] << ' ';
	}
	cout << endl;
}

```
</CPPSection>

</LanguageSection>

> ---

Reviewer 7: looks like the file got duplicated and everything below should be deleted?

Author: my bad, yes
